# galaxy-morphology-manifold-learning
Code for galaxy morphology classification using manifold learning data dimensionality reduction.
This repository is organized as follows:

<table>
  <thead><tr><th colspan="2" style="font-weight: bold; text-align: center;">Demos</th></tr></thead>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://mtsizh.github.io/galaxy-morphology-manifold-learning/demos/DECALS_galaxies_explorer.html">DECALS Galaxies Explorer</a></td>
    <td>Runs in browser (JS-based). Displays results of LLE for 3 dimensions. Move mouse over the point in the pointcloud to see the image of galaxy associated with the point.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://mtsizh.github.io/galaxy-morphology-manifold-learning/demos/generated_galaxies_explorer.html">Generated Galaxies Explorer</a></td>
    <td>Runs in browser (JS-based). Displays results of LLE for 3 dimensions for generated galaxies (details in the article). Move mouse over the point in the pointcloud to see the generated image.</td>
  </tr>
  <thead><tr><th colspan="2" style="font-weight: bold; text-align: center;">Folders</th></tr></thead>
  <tr>
    <td>curated_dataset/</td>
    <td>Contains curated and cropped dataset. This dataset can be used for dimensionality reduction and viewing precomputed Petrosian radii. For computing Petrosian radii from scratch we recommend to use the larger archive generated by curate_dataset.pynb</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>embeddings/</td>
    <td>Contains precomputed embeddings for the best-scored method (LLE) and best-scored parameters</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>petrosian_radii/</td>
    <td>Contains precomputed Petrosian radii</td>
  </tr>
  <thead><tr><th colspan="2" style="font-weight: bold; text-align: center;">Files</th></tr></thead>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/mtsizh/galaxy-morphology-manifold-learning/blob/master/curate_dataset.ipynb">curate_dataset.ipynb</a></td>
    <td>Downloads the dataset, curates data (see article for details), and creates two archives with stored data. We recommend using Google Drive to copy these archives to. They can be later reused by other scripts in this repository. The smaller archive with cropped images can be dowloaded from this repository, but the larger one cannot be committed due to GitHub restrictions.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/mtsizh/galaxy-morphology-manifold-learning/blob/master/morphology_classification.ipynb">morphology_classification.ipynb</a></td>
    <td>Performs dimensionality reduction with best-scored method and best-scored parameters. Additionaly there is an option to download precomputed data from the repository. Draws confusion matrices and provides statistics.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

